it's a modern Twist on an old joke you
know what I mean it was it was a real
circumstance that happened an
exaggerated instance that really
happened and I went you know this is
this is a classic joke why not give my
own personal modern Twist on it and move
on the joke's like a minute 30 seconds
of people were like all he did was bash
women and I purposely did it first in
the show to go hey just so you know this
is this is the kind of humor I like to
tell and if it's not for you you are so
more than welcome to turn off the TV
right now
[Music]
hello everyone I had the opportunity
today to welcome and speak with one of
the world's most outstanding current
comedians young guy 28 years old Matt re
who's exploded onto the comedy scene in
the last few years
after having put his time in the
trenches he's been working as a comedian
in small clubs and so forth he started
when he was 15 so he put in his 10 years
before really becoming popular he's been
the subject of a relatively dedicated
Council campaign in recent weeks and so
we had a chance to discuss that to
discuss his witty fast Brave and uh
appropriate response to that
cancellation to talk about that sort of
thing in more detail and also to detail
out uh his the the structure of his new
tour and his plans for the future and
and why he's doing what he's doing and
what the role of Comedy is in the
broader world so welcome to the
conversation all right so I've been I've
been planning this opening which I don't
usually do because I like to do things
spontaneously but but I H I have to get
this one right okay so you got to help
me get this straight okay okay so now
you're a comedian and you got cancelled
for a domestic
assault joke and then in response to
that instead of apologizing like a good
boy you put up a joke ad site about
special needs helmets to protect the
people who are offended by you and
now to get yourself out of trouble
you're going to come on my podcast I
never your plan I was hoping it would
make things way worse I'm hoping we can
drive sales to that very real website
about the helmets yes anyways
congratulations on that I thought I
thought the joke was funny risky and
funny and I thought your response was
dead on like one of the things I've
noticed is that people who are harassed
by sensorial minded null wits almost
always back down and apologize and then
my my sense of that is that a mob comes
after them first for whatever
hypothetical sin they've committed and
then they apologize and a second mob
comes after them for that exactly and
then they lessen their own character by
the false apology and they embolden
these idiot accusers and so why did you
decide when when this blew up around you
and I mean in some ways it's a tempest
in a teapot but when this blew up around
you why did you decide to take the
strategy that you took why weren't you
like racked with guilt and apologetic
and because it's just comedy I'm just
doing what's funny to me it's never any
deeper than that nor should it be for
anybody I'm saying things that my
imagination drums up that makes me happy
reliefs endorsements in my head that
makes my life happier and all I do is
share those thoughts with other people
in hopes that it makes their life easier
well I've I've been watching what you do
on your specials and you you're
continually interacting with the
audience which and correct me if I've
got this wrong I mean a lot of the
comedians that I've spoken to they spend
a lot of time preparing their sets and
practicing but you're doing it's it it
seems to be something that's much more
akin to spontaneous wit and that's a
dangerous thing to do because you could
easily be not funny oh high risk High
reward yeah yeah well and it's also that
because you're doing that you don't have
a lot of time to exactly think through
what you're going to say right I mean if
something strikes you as amusing you
pretty much have to go for it and if
your if your head's full of censorship
related thoughts you're going to be not
funny in about 15 seconds so you have to
let the intrusive thoughts wi and comedy
you have to what what comes if you're a
naturally funny person the first thing
that comes to your mind should be the
funniest thing to you most the time it
commes and it has to be the first thing
yeah you know if you're if you're
writing a multiple choice test by the
way you if you second guess your your
what your intuition about the right
answer you're more likely to be wrong
with the second guess yeah yeah that
immediate response yeah that immediate
response tends to be better yeah well
and it's it's a weird thing because that
thing that's comical inside you that's
providing you with the intuition for the
jokes it has to be in quick rep timing
is everything absolutely it has to be in
quick relationship with the audience
yeah timing is absolutely everything you
want to say the the most pointed thing
at exactly the right time and so what do
you think or maybe I don't know if You'
thought about it what do you think is oh
first of all how broadscale do you think
this Rebellion against what you said
actually is how many people do you think
are behind it and why do you think it's
become such a big deal it's probably a
few dozen thousand which sounds like a
lot until you remember there's 8 billion
people in the world yeah and I would say
90% of the small majority that is upset
with me doesn't go to comedy shows
anyway or wouldn't Vibe with me as a
person anyways which is fine they're
probably not that funny I watched a
couple of them today on YouTube I can
imagine oh my God yeah I mean they're
the sort of people that you just want to
what do you want for them you want for
them you want them to spend eternity in
a Hell composed of nothing but people
like them talking to them so Twitter
yeah yeah exactly that right but that's
the thing is it's like whether whether
you enjoy what I do or not you don't
even have to know it exists if I'm your
problem if you and I are face to face
and you have a problem with my comedy
that I tell that I admit to the world
right if you just remove yourself from
me if you do something as simple as just
turn around there is an entire planet
behind you for you to go explore and
live the rest of your life you don't
ever have to think about me you don't
have to talk about me I don't like scre
heavy metal music guess how often I
think about it or talk about it 0% of
the time you just remove yourself from
the situation I don't I see no harm in
trying to make people laugh as a general
um intention yeah well I also don't want
don't understand exactly from from a
purely logical perspective what the
people who are complaining exactly
expect from you because as and maybe it
is that they a have no sense of humor or
and and that's highly likely or that
they're doing something we can talk
about which is gaining some kind of
benefit from their from their from their
complaints some virtue signaling I
really see that with the men in
particular well I know I really care a
lot
wom yeah I saw one Tik Tok video who was
like I I have a wife and I found this
sely disrespectful I was like okay you
cuck whatever dude yeah think foreplay
yeah what do you want to get more [__]
outside of your wife like chill out
you're already married she already
respects you what what do you want yeah
well I used to see when when I had
demonstrations around me which used to
be more common than they are now which
is just as well the worst people I ever
saw at those demonstrations weren't the
herodin women who were screeching like
fish wives but the men that were
hypothetically there to support them man
I tell you I couldn't even look at some
of those guys without having a shutter
run up my spine there's almost nothing
worse than a man who tries to worm
himself in with a group of women by
pretending to be more on their side than
the women actually are when their actual
motivation is to use that what was that
Gad sad The evolutionary psychologist
who works at Concordia he called that
the sneaky fire uh routine yeah yeah
exactly well and that's actually a
phrase from evolutionary biology I'll
tell you a funny story that goes along
with that this is hilarious and and so
telling so primatologists who study
orangutans figured out a long time ago
that there are two variant male types of
orangutan okay so there's like
orangutans tend to hang around in trees
they're arboreal but the men the males
who become dominant in a given territory
get so large sort of like a linebacker
football and they have these big fat
pads around their face that are circular
they get so large they can't really go
in trees anymore and the females come to
them but then there are other males in
the vicinity for who the primatologists
thought were adolescents for a very long
time because they look like adolescent
males and they hang around in the trees
but they turn out to be many of them
fully mature males whose development
into the linebacker is forestalled by
the fact that they're not at the top of
the pecking order right and so their
strategy is sneaky rape Jesus right
right so it doesn't take much of an
imagination to map that on to the you
know the feminist male who's so on the
side of women that you know he gets to
be the friend who can entice some poor
girl into bed when she's at her lowest
point so it's almost like their own
insecurity and lack of manhood manhood
probably isn't the best word to use but
it it stunts their own Evolution well
it's it it it it it Ena it it requires
that they take a different Pathway to
mating success they can't use dominance
yeah yeah right right right so pathetic
yeah yeah yeah so why did you decide to
come on my podcast I'm a huge fan man I
find you listen you and I have never met
I have I've I I'll be truthfully honest
I've I've never I haven't done extensive
research into everything you've done but
I find you to be a very kind man and
very well spoken and someone who stands
on their morals and the the realism of
society today and I think that is
incredibly rare and I just highly
appreciate you oh well thank you I
wasn't fishing for compliments but I do
appreciate the fact that they emerged
well I'm curious partly too because you
I think it's fair to say that your
primary fan base is women that I mean
I'm not certain of that but it is the
case okay and and is it almost always
women that you interact with in the
crowd no not at all it's totally total
luck of the draw whatever happens I mean
women yell out the most for sure like
they'll Heckle the most so that will
draw more uh adamants crowd work like
that I didn't necessarily intend on
doing but overall no it's just is that
something that's particularly
characteristic of your shows because I
would think yeah right because that's
yeah okay well I've kind of I've kind of
created my own crowd workor monster in a
way a friend of mine put this in
perspective for me if I if I got popular
from doing crowd work which which was a
very specific strategy a lot of it I
only post my crowd because I don't feel
like burning through material Comics
build for minimum a year two three years
an hourong show right I would feel like
a total piece of [__] if I if I let you
pay money to come see the exact same
material you just saw for free online so
crowd work being a very unique
circumstance that really isn't to be
duplicated at any other show that you do
because you're not going to meet the
same person who's been the same
circumstance has the same story to tell
right so this is a very unique thing
that you could share and it doesn't burn
through any of your material at all so
that's why you've been making the
specials on YouTube out of crowd workor
yeah exactly right right because you can
you can make them permanent and you said
it doesn't interfere with the novelty of
a prepared show so you do prepared
material as well yeah I have two full
specials on YouTube that are fully seen
the crowd work okay oh you watched the
red flags so I specifically did that
special because I got I was getting
popular for doing Red Flag crowd work
just on Tik Tok and it got so bad to the
point where I'd be in the middle of
working on material and people would be
yelling out like do red flags or just
yelling out like flipflops or what mama
was yelling out their own red flags
without any context at all so I was like
fine I'm going to do one special at the
biggest Red Flag City there is Miami at
the Miami Improv and then that's like
the final statement closing the chapter
on my red flag crowd workor now I don't
do it anymore now there's I think the
special is like 50 minutes long of me
just doing full crowd work for for 50
minutes with with the people in Miami
and it was a lot of fun I was happy to
close the chapter
though okay why did you close it and why
were you happy to close it because it
does ruin the show when people yell out
I wanted to go okay I know you like this
thing I do so here's that now you have
that final product I did this
specifically for you guys now let me
grow to do the kind of Comedy I I want
to do and I'm still growing and I'm
still learning I'm 28 years old most
Comics that are top of their game today
probably just started at the age I'm at
right now so I mean I have a lot of
learning and growth to do right right
right how how long have you been doing
comedy professionally 12 and a half
years so since you were 16 15 yeah 15 15
were you funny before that yeah yeah I
was always like Class Clown making my
friends and family and laugh I didn't
know comedy was a career or even a job
until I was about
14 and I kind of discovered who like
Dane Cook and Dave Chappelle were and
those those guys were at the Pinnacle of
comedy at that time so I just learned I
studied them fell in love with the art
form and I started doing open mics when
I was 15 after school on Tuesdays and
Wednesdays and everything just kind of
snowballed and nobody in my family has
ever been to college so there was no
pressure to do anything after high
school everyone in my hometown kind of
does the exact same thing they just work
at like how big is your hometown about
1,200 people oh yeah yeah one stoplight
that could have easily been a four-way
stop never traffic there at all yeah
yeah but that's a mark of of attainment
to have at least one yeah yeah I I came
from a little town in Northern Alberta
it had about 2500 people and it was a
big deal when we got our first stop
light which was like utterly unnecessary
they just got a Dollar General on the
out on the outskirts of town and
everyone's like we got a new grocery
store like they are loving it very
simple Town yeah yeah I can remember too
that when when the Kentucky Fried
Chicken came to town that was also a big
deal when you got a KFC that's so funny
in hindsight it's one of those places
growing up you go oh this is so boring
can't wait to get out of here but
looking back I had such a wonderful
childhood even going back now I went
back maybe a couple of months ago
because I had some show what's the name
of the town it's called North Lewisburg
Ohio it's a very very small town about
Maryville Ohio is the closest city to it
I suppose um and I was doing shows not
far from there and had to drive past it
for tour like two months ago and I
stopped through there nothing had
changed and I thought that was beautiful
like I I I live in LA now and I I tour
cons constantly but people get so
wrapped up into what they think the rest
of the world is actually talking about
or actually cares about when it's not
true at all I I saw kids riding their
bikes and running around playing outside
when I'm driving through town I go I
haven't seen that in years people
weren't on their phones people even
people at the gas station when we
stopped in the workers in there were
talking hanging out nobody was just on
their phone scrolling we become so
detached from the rest of the world when
we live in certain environments it's how
long you lived in La it would be 11
years in January oh okay yeah after I
graduated high school early at 17 and I
moved out and just couch surfed for the
first like year year and a half okay so
what did you do in LA okay so first of
all you said you started doing open mics
when you were about 15 where the
Columbus Funny Bone in Columbus Ohio I I
went on the comedy club's website when I
kind of figured out open mics were the
thing to start with I don't remember or
how I found that out I remember going to
their website finding out it's 21 and up
as most comedy clubs are due to Laker
license and the owner's email was on
there and like a naive kid I just
emailed the owner I was like hey this is
my name this is how old I am I know I'm
supposed to be 21 and up that if I have
like a parent Guardian with me could I
come in to try the open mic and any
rational businessman would say no I'm
not going to risk my liquor license for
some kid to come in here tell a jokes
like what could possibly come out of
that but for some odd reason and he said
yes and it allowed me an opportunity to
go and practice and enjoy this new thing
that I was just doing for fun I had no
idea anything like this could ever
happen to me it was just something I was
doing for fun to like make my grandpa
laugh and did you make your grandpa
laugh oh my God he was my number one fan
I I I miss him every single day oh oh
yes so so did you have a good time in
Columbus doing this I did but it's most
like most Midwestern towns there's a
there's a ceiling you know and if you
have bigger dreams yet you have you have
to escape you have to go see what else
is out there so so so how so tell me how
your career progressed from colum from
Columbus how many how many shows did you
do at Club what was the what was the Arc
of your of your career so I started when
I was 15 and then I got a manager at a
comedy club in Atlanta um over Twitter
believe it or
not well there Twitter was good for
something I know make or break you like
the one time Twitter has been good for
something exactly well this good for
getting canceled actually if you want to
get cancelled Twitter's ex yeah
Jesus that is its primary use what else
is he it's just negativity it's the
worst app people who thrive on Twitter
rarely do well in life it's so bad I but
this was when Twitter was kind of brand
new so what would happen was Comics that
I was a fan of would come through the
state of Ohio whether Cleveland Toledo
Dayton Cincinnati or Columbus and this
was a time where Twitter was so new you
could access anybody like this was a
time when like Ashton Kutcher was like
the only person to had like a million
followers on there like at most
celebrities had ah maybe 10,000
followers on there you could tweet to
somebody and they would see it and they
would respond so I would tweet to
favorite comics of mine when they were
coming through the state of Ohio i' be
like hey I'm a big fan I'm a kid can I
do a guest spot on your show and some
would say no some would thankfully say
yes so who gave you an early opportunity
DL hugley actually gave me my first ever
guest spot uh which was so funny because
when I was 15 years old my extent of my
DL hugly knowledge was just so plain
where he played a bad attendant his
smallest credit to date has to be I had
no realization that he was one of the
Kings of Comedy like one of the greatest
to ever do it and go one of the most
famous tours of all time but he was so
kind to me he gave me my first guest
spot uh my second guest spot was finesse
Mitchell and then it was uh Ralphie May
was a like like a brother of mine uh
he's one that really helped me out in my
younger years but through Twitter uh
there was this comedy club owner in
Atlanta who knew DL for a very long time
and he saw D hugly and I just going back
and forth joking back and forth with
each other on Twitter he reached out my
mom and I drove down from Ohio to
Atlanta it's like a 9-h hour drive to
come perform at his club for a weekend
went there we hit it off really well he
explained to me the things he wanted to
do for my career and I didn't know any
better so I was like yeah what however
you want to help and my mom was also
like yeah whatever keeps them off drugs
I guess so did that work did did did it
keep you off drugs uh until like my
early 20s yeah I would say that's not
that's probably that's a better time to
start fantastic job yeah exactly exact
I'm from Ohio I'm lucky I didn't brush
my teeth with fent all growing up it was
bad Hometown was so
trashy diversify your savings with
physical precious metals while
stockpiling silver in your home safe
with Birch gold group's most popular
special of the year now through December
22nd for every $5,000 you spend with
Birch gold they'll send you a 1o silver
eagle coin for free text Jordan to 989
9898 to claim your eligibility now you
can purchase gold and silver and have it
shipped directly to your home or have
Birch Gold's precious metal specialist
help you convert an existing Ira or 401K
into a tax sheltered Ira in gold for no
money out of pocket and once again
they'll send you free silver for every
$5,000 you purchase keep it for yourself
or give something with real value as a
stocking stuffer this year just text the
keyword Jordan to 98 9898 to claim your
eligibility with an A+ rating with the
Better Business Bureau and thousands of
happy customers now is the time to buy
gold from Birch gold text Jordan to 98
9898 and claim your eligibility for free
silver on qualifying purchases before
December 22nd that's Jordan to 98
[Music]
9898 so he finds me on Twitter we go
down there we meet we hit it off and he
offers me to come down there the summer
between my junior senior year of high
school and I go down there and I live on
a Comics couch for three months my
entire summer break I go down there and
I'm doing nine to 11 shows a week I'm
going to the malls I'm I'm passing out
free tickets I'm hanging posters up to
promote shows I'm going in to the comedy
club at 3 pm. to like practice my set
while he throws tennis balls at me and
honks horns and Jingles anything he can
do to distract me to very that was part
of the treat the training regimen
exactly exactly and I think to this day
I think it helps me keep my composure in
the pocket like I'm not thrown for a
loop when somebody out something that
typical exposure therapy from a
psychological perspective right
exactly afraid of yeah oh that's cool so
what way huh so how did he know to do
that do you think that's
smart I'm not sure he's he's a fantastic
guy his name is Gary ABDO he's he's very
prominent in in the comedy community
he's he's helped out a lot of people
starting out their career like he he was
very prominent in Chappelle's early
years he was like a late teenager
earthquake so he's probably seen people
thrown by hecklers and so forth and by
trouble you can't get knocked out of
your groove well his Comedy Club down
there was called the Uptown Comedy
Corner and it was notoriously known as
like one of the harshest comedy clubs in
the country it's it was a it was a tough
environment like they either loved you
or they would boo you off stage so for
me to go in there as a kid yes you have
the novelty of like he's a kid give him
a chance but but only so far yeah so you
got to get them in the first couple of
minutes otherwise they're not going to
sit there and watch you do five or 10
minutes they just they don't they don't
have that patience in them so I go down
there and I get trained in like one of
the harshest environments possible and
in doing that I meet more comics who are
coming through the club I would pretty
much open for like anybody that came
through the club down there I met a lot
of comics who lived out of La so then
when I went back to high school for my
senior year I knew I didn't want to go
to college I knew comedy is what I
wanted to do so I flew out to Los
Angeles and I took the the chess be the
California proficiency exam which in
certain States is kind of like college
where you have to have a certain amount
of credits to graduate high school the
chesp is essentially a test you can take
at any time that basically test you out
of high school youve learned everything
you need to learn oh really oh that's a
great that's a great option fantastic so
I flew out there took the
test uh came back I had to wait like two
weeks for my results but I I had a good
feeling about it so I was I was just
going to school for two weeks and just
like sleeping throughout class I
wouldn't do any of the work I wouldn't
take any of the test how old were you at
that point I just turned 17 maybe I just
turned 17 I was maybe still and so
that's after you came back from La yes
right uh came back from taking the test
waiting for the results got the results
back at like the first week of January
moved out to my friend Eric Griffin's
couch two weeks after that so I was
about H like four or five months early
from graduating high school moved out
there lived on his couch for the first
couple of months then uh then my manager
at the time his son graduated film
school he moved out to Los Angeles I
stayed on his couch for the next year
and I was just going to comedy clubs
every single night I would go and just
hang out some of them wouldn't even let
me hang out inside until finally people
would vouch for me people wouldn't show
up on the lineup and somebody was like
well he's here all right so you're
hanging around enough to get your
opportunity exactly but funny enough
sometimes I would get the opportunity to
go on stage and I literally couldn't
step foot in the comedy club until they
were like announcing and Matt re and
then I would have to run through into
the comedy club Go on stage and leave
immediately after cuz I wasn't 21 so
they still had to abide by like their
own rules in a very loophole way and in
doing that I just kind of stayed
consistent in the scene I was getting
more and more prominent stage time I
started to book smaller and smaller uh
smaller turning into larger um TV
appearances which it was some Disney
stuff that led to a bunch of MTV stuff
and then after I left all my MTV stuff I
just became really dedicated to to
standup and and transferring over to to
acting and and producing and developing
and all that kind of stuff so what did
you do for MTV uh my first thing I did
on there was wild and out I did four
seasons of that I was like the youngest
cast member it was right after right
after Pete Davidson left there to go to
SNL they they needed a white guy and I
happened to fit like that exact M went
on there learned so much so that's a
very strange diversity hire oh of course
we're short of white guys yeah let's
call M never he anymore no no that's
that's not that's not a likely diversity
H but but this it could not have been a
better learning experience cuz I was a
very insecure shy kid and I was going on
the show with Comics this was this was
the revamp of wild or not this was after
Kevin Hart D Davis Cory hul all these
amazing Cat Williams all these um
fantastic Comics had left the show and
they rebooted it with a lot of comics I
knew from the Atlanta scene who were
monsters Carlos Miller DC youngfly Chico
Bean are all killers on stage and I had
to compete with that and I knew I
couldn't but I at least had to hold my
ground and in doing that I just went
through the gauntlet over there like
everyone at that show turned me into man
with confidence on stage and I'll I'm so
grateful for that I I can't imagine I
would have gotten that experience
anywhere else so I did a few seasons on
the show and the show was fun I enjoyed
my experience on there but I had a very
Niche role to play every joke I said had
to be about me being a white guy on the
show if I ever to constrained yes
anytime I try to step out of it people
will be like what are you doing I'm like
Oh I thought I was gonna do like a
clever joke and they're like no no no no
no do do the thing you're here to do and
although I enjoyed it and I had built a
little bit of a name for myself I was
like this isn't what that's an
interesting set of constraints right I
mean it's very tight set of constraints
and one of the um one of the facts that
emerges from the literature on
creativity is that you tend to get
creative responses when people are
constrained very severely best example I
know of that is so there's a Japanese
poetry form known as Haiku which has
very strict rules well MIT nerds set up
a website decades ago now that was
devoted to Haik cou that could only be
about the lunch and meet spam and
there's like 50,000 Haus there's
literally 50,000 haikus online in the
online Haiku spam archive and they're
hilarious but partly they're hilarious
because well it's bad enough that you
have to just do ha cou that's like
pointless and and constraining to begin
with but then to restrict it even
further so specific well yeah well it
forces a kind of wit and so I can
imagine that having the constraint of
only being ble to make jokes about being
the white guy must have also been one of
the things that sharpened your wit I
think so too and I think unless I'm
misconstruing this I I think that's
probably why crowd work works the best
for me because I'm very constrained like
I I have to talk about I have to answer
what they're saying to me with a funny
response in association with what
they're talking about I don't I don't
have vast options it has to be now and
it has to do what they're saying okay so
you said that you were a shy kid and
obviously the last thing in some ways
that you would expect a shy kid to be
doing is to be doing online standup
comedy comedy in front of live audiences
and then Taping that that's specifically
devoted to crowd work because I can't
actually imagine a situation you know
maybe if you threw someone on stage and
said like sing naked that would be about
the equivalent of inducing
self-consciousness so how did you get to
the point where what did you have to do
so that your
shyness was no longer making you
self-conscious on stage and and how is
it that you Orient yourself towards the
audience so you don't become
self-conscious when you're now now
you'll be come self-conscious because
we're deing no no not at all not at all
so so I'm curious about how how you keep
yourself not focusing on whether or not
you're being funny for example when
you're interacting with the
audience it's purely confidence whether
it's real or fake confidence I think
when I was
younger I did develop a fake confidence
right I uh I I was bullied a lot in high
school not like getting shoved into
lockers but to the point where I I
wasn't any in anybody's group you know I
was plast clown I was the butt of a lot
of people's Jokes
which didn't hurt at least I I I tell
myself but I think that's where you
learn you learn to to to deflect right
you you have two options in a moment
when somebody makes a joke expense you
can either laugh along and play into it
and go with it or you can be embarrassed
and everybody sees you're embarrassed
embar yeah right that just invites F
abuse so I think growing up I developed
this sense of false confidence where I
went hey if I also make fun of myself
and I get in on your guys' joke it won't
hurt or people can't
tell think it doesn't bother me because
obviously like so I'm going to challenge
your supposition that that was false
well because the thing about being funny
is that if you're false you're not funny
and if you're not funny and you're being
bullied you're just going to get bullied
worse so you were obviously it seems
like you were able to generate responses
that were witty and that were funny but
purely a defense mechanism I think it
wasn't for the point of like oh I hope I
get a good joke off here I think it was
I have to deflect what them saying a
mean thing with me saying a funny thing
right but that is a that is so I would
say that is a good that's actually a
very sophisticated defense because I
mean one of the things that people do
guys do this particularly and like
relatively rough working job working
class jobs is they'll throw pointed
barbs at other to see you know are you
the sort of person who gets irritated
and flies off the handle and can't be
trusted in a crisis or are you the sort
of person that can roll with a joke and
maybe even say something funny and so I
wouldn't say that the ability to do that
is false I would say that's a
sophisticated it's more sophisticated
form of Defense Than Physical aggression
I mean physical aggression can be useful
but that's a that's there isn't a more
sophisticated way of
parrying like a pointed remark than to
turn it into something that's funny and
toss it back oh well thank you yeah I
mean it was it was a totally
subconscious skill set I had no idea
until right now apparently what I was
even doing so a thank you and B I think
it starts then and then the longer you
do stand up you realize you're funny
eventually you do realize you're funny
Chris Rock talks about this all the time
when he talks about uh when comedians
can't tell a joke on stage and it
doesn't work after a certain point you
know your funny you're just not saying
your joke correctly where the audience
perceives it the way you want them to
Perce so you don't you don't experience
moments of global doubt exactly it's
localized exactly so I think after a
while I mean after doing comedy for 12
years and having had shows of uproar
laughter and standing ovations you know
you're capable of being funny and
putting on a good show right right so I
think that
confidence is paired with the control of
an audience when you're on stage with a
microphone people are there to watch and
listen to you they're also hoping you'll
be funny except for the odd troll so
they're on your they could be on your
side yes and then once people see how
you can handle that kind of power that
you can be funny that you can shut
somebody down I think people are more
apt to take the seat and just go okay
let me just see what he does right right
they're going to give you more of the
benefit of the do yeah well and It's
Tricky too responding to a crowd like
that too because you have to be funny
well and this is I suppose in some ways
why you've gotten into trouble you have
to be in funny you have to be funny but
you can't be too mean right you can't
hit a fly with a sledgehammer your
response has to be proportionate I mean
you up the ante a little bit that's my
my presumption you up the anti a little
bit when someone says something smart
but you don't come out with like the
Long Knives and hack someone to bits of
course right CU that'll turn them again
CU first of all you can actually hurt
someone publicly by doing that which is
not good if it's not necessary and
second you could easily turn the
audience against you well this is also
again why I think it's so unfair that
comedians in particular face this kind
of absurd cancellation pressure because
the line that a good comic is walking on
is so damn thin you you have to be
playing with disaster in order to be
funny right the things you say this is
one of the things I used to really like
about Sarah Silverman she would say you
could see it you could see it she'd be
listening to someone and some absolutely
horrible thought would come into her
mind and then she'd have the guts to to
lay it out even though it was like rude
and unacceptable beyond belief I think
comedy is purely down to intent when
people are bullying you like when high
schoolers are are making fun of
something about you that's a totally
different intent even though they are
making a joke their intention is that
you're going to feel a certain kind of
way that is what differ differentiates
it from standup comedy every single
thing I say on stage is said with
nothing but the intention to make people
laugh and I understand it's not going to
make everybody else laugh some people
heal totally differently when it comes
to certain topics I get that and I
accept that I'm not for you but yeah but
getting touchy about that even if you've
been hurt getting touchy about that
first of all that's a sign that you
still have some real work to do and
second getting touchy about that and
then shielding yourself from any
exposure to that is not the way to being
cured quite the contrary you know like
if it's bad better if you've had a
traumatic experience in your life not to
protect yourself unduly from from
situations that might bring that back up
but to voluntarily expose yourself to
situations where that's likely to be the
case and so it's it's it might be
understandable in that people have been
hurt but it's counterproductive even
with regard to their own recovery oh ab
and you know partly what comedy does too
it has this psychological function is
that it does provide an in sort of like
it's sort of like horror movie in some
ways you know it's a weird thing that
people will go voluntarily watch a
horror movie because you might ask like
why would you pay to be scared but
you're not you're paying for the
experience of the Mastery of your fear
right and you have right well and then
in comedy you see the same sort of thing
happening is the comedians are always
toying with the Forbidden and the reason
for that in part the reason the audience
participates is because well we often
have to deal with the Forbidden and
often some of the things we forbid
aren't things that we should be avoiding
or forbidding so um Russell Peters he's
a good example Peters when he does his
huge stadium shows it's so interesting
to watch them because he tells racist
jokes Non-Stop and you can you can feel
that there's a palpable demand in the
audience from the ethnic group that he
hasn't yet skewed to be skewed so that
they can show that they can take a joke
that they're in on the joke right right
so and so the comedians they have that
function of putting forward what would
you say unpalatable truths right in a
place where everyone's there to do that
voluntarily that's part of the game how
far can we push things and then to get
all [__] about that and to try to
cancel someone in consequence I saw this
one guy on YouTube who's complaining
about you you know he said first of all
oh may maybe you'll recognize him he
said that you know you built your career
um as an ally of women that was
basically his point now that you've
betrayed him youve betrayed them with
your jokes about domestic abuse and so
he was playing this you know I'm the
friend of women sort of game yeah but
he's violating that contract too which
is that everybody's there in a comedy
club To Play With Disaster and and you
know you're essentially supposed to go
along with that yeah I just don't
understand how the environment isn't
taken into consideration like that is
the environment is the context think of
Comedy like a store like a restaurant
front right you go in there the food's
not for you you you can leave you didn't
have to stop in here it's such comedy is
such a niche field it's not I wouldn't
consider standup comedy a mainstream art
form I wouldn't it's not film it's not
television it's not music it's not as
globally celebrated in in every
household you know so I think I I it
just blows my mind that people can't
just let it be if it's not for you it's
not for you well I see what's happening
I think like even this guy that that
that um that criticized you in the the
manner that I just described I found
what he had to say and him for that
matter contempt I thought it was
pathetic but this is something social
media does is
that his video Even though I don't think
it redounds to his credit has given him
more exposure likely than anything he
will ever do in his life right so one of
the problems is this is a huge problem
on the social media side is that we've
put
undo access to status in the hands of
people who will misuse accusations to
Garner attention you know and you might
say well why would people want that kind
of negative attention and the answer to
that is well High School shooters will
shoot up a high school for attention and
they'll shoot themselves afterwards
which seems to be run kind of contrary
to their desire for attention but what
that just shows is how much people want
attention and the problem one of the
massive problems with social media is
that it provides people who are willing
to do something like Savage your
reputation with more attention than they
could ever
acrew given their own status and
abilities and so what to do about that I
have no idea although apologizing is a
bad idea yeah absolutely not I I'll
never apologize for a joke ever I I I
just find the prioritization of human
beings to be so Fu you're on this Earth
for 80 years let's call it on average
whatever it was was that what's the
average 83 something like 80 funny years
80 after that they're not so funny I
disagree I think after 80 you get to be
funnier you get to excuse you can [__]
wherever you want after 90 I think if
you're on this Earth for such a limited
amount of time how insane is it to sit
behind your phone and computer and
complain about something you don't like
when you have a world at your hands of
all the things you do like what an
absolute waste of energy time and
emotion
starting a business can be tough
especially knowing how to run your
online storefront thanks to Shopify it's
easier than ever Shopify is the global
Commerce platform that helps you sell at
every stage of your business from the
launch your online shop stage all the
way to the did we just hit a million
orders stage Shopify is there to help
you grow our marketing team uses Shopify
every day to sell our merchandise and we
love how easy it is to add more items
ship products and track conversions
Shopify helps you turn browsers into
buyers with the internet's best
converting checkout up to 36% better
compared to other leading Commerce
platforms no matter how big you want to
grow Shopify gives you everything you
need to take control and take your
business to the next level sign up for a
$1 per month trial period at shopify.com
jbp go to shopify.com jbp now to grow
your business no matter what stage
you're at that's shopify.com jvp
[Music]
so what why do you think why do you
think you were
inclined when you when this Tempest in a
tea party merged to make arguably even a
worse joke because I think I which I'm
very I'm very pleased about by the way I
thought that was actually a master
stroke because you topped what you were
being accused of by picking on an even
lower status Group which I thought was I
disagree okay go ahead I disagree when
people think that joke was intended to
make fun of special needs people that is
that's no no I'm not I'm I'm definitely
not making that assumption but that was
the risk of the misinterpretation course
inevitably what happened I go but it was
a risk it was a daring and risky move
and I also thought it was hilarious but
now but the thing is that is often not
what happens I mean I've seen celebrity
after
celebrity who are cornered by a small
minority of Their audience right
abjectly apologize and so did you first
of all did you have any guilt about the
domestic violence joke which by the way
I also thought was very funny cuz it's a
completely madeup story like it's it's
it's I went to one Diner and a girl had
like a little bruise under her eye and
it was like a conversational joke that
happened at our table and I went this
this is crazy how do you describe this
hum is is there a definition or a label
for the kind of humor that you just say
the worst possible scenario it's funny
because it's ridiculous because you know
it's not true because you know know it's
not what you mean you know it's not the
right thing that is what makes it funny
what it how how is that how what is that
Lev what is that style of Comedy kind of
irony it's a kind of iry irony it's not
not fully sarcasm it's not totally
satire no no but it's a wildly common
sense of humor like a lot of people
share that together and that is who I
want yeah well that's part of that's
part of ridicule I would say like you
know the the exagger of something it's
also you know if you take okay so you
took this scenario that you saw at a
restaurant blew it up into something
beyond what it was see it's another form
of exposure there too because obviously
domestic violence is a terrible thing
and there's nothing funny about someone
with a black eye except under very
restricted circumstances but being able
to see one of the things that you do
when you set up a terrible scenario and
then you make a joke about it is first
of all you signal to the audience that
you understand that this was a terrible
scenario and then you signal that even
though you know it was a terrible
scenario there's part of you that can
rise above it and transcend it right and
to make light of it and I don't think
there is anything really more admirable
in human beings than their ability to
make light of a tragedy and and light
doesn't mean to minimize its importance
it means to transform something that's
truly negative into something that's
manageable and comical one of the things
I've seen with people who've undergone
very deeply traumatic experiences is
that you know that they've recovered
from their absolute catastrophe when
they can start making a joke about it
and my daughter for example had a very
rough childhood in adolescent she was
very very ill and she can tell the worst
parts of her experiences in a manner
that's like it'll bring tears of
laughter to your eyes it's screamingly
funny partly CU it's so partly cuz it's
so awful you just can't believe it right
but partly because in recounting it and
sharing it you also signal that it can
be talked about it can be faced and it
can be transcended and got by and that's
what you're doing in real time on a
comedy stage it's like yeah we share
this snake pit of Hell that we all live
in from time to time but that doesn't
mean that we have to dive in and wallow
in it we can make light of it and that's
what great comedians do continually and
so I thought that's what you did with
the domestic violence joke and you added
some nice kitchen related misogyny to
that very rapidly which was a good it's
a it's a modern Twist on an old joke you
know what I mean it was it was a real
circumstance that happened I'm sorry a a
an exaggerated instance that really
happened and I went you know this is
this is a classic joke why not give my
own personal modern Twist on it and move
on the joke's like a minute and 30
seconds of people were like all he did
was bash women for an hour I go did you
did you get to the come there's so much
come in the middle of the show then we
talk about airplanes and ghosts and
monsters it's it was such a minute thing
that I go hey just and I purposely did
it first in the show to go hey just so
you know this is this is the kind of
humor I like to tell and if it's not for
you you are so more than welcome to turn
off the TV right now I don't want you to
fall in love with me and then get and
then paint a a wrong perspective of who
you think I am and then halfway through
the show he goes oh he ruined it I'd
rather tell you up front like Hey we're
going to do some dark humor this is how
I personally Jimmy Carr does that too he
often starts out with like the worst
thing he can possibly say just to
establish the boundaries why not yeah I
I I I find I find it wildly important to
make light of of dark situations I feel
like you have two options to deal with
the situation you can either when it
comes to a certain topic you can either
let it take up a negative space in your
mind and energy to where if the word or
topic even gets set around you you get
so triggered and uncomfortable it ruins
your day or and the day of every went
around you yes or you can find a way to
laugh about it find a way to heal that
way next time somebody brings it up
maybe you have something positive to say
about your experience or how you've or
how you've come to deal with it that can
then lead to other people healing
through the same way when my grandpa
passed away my friends knew my friends
bombarded me with dead grandfather jokes
they knew that was going to help me
laugh and get through that and it was
the toughest moment of my entire life
and to this that's also a testament in
many ways way to your character because
your friends knew that even under those
dire circumstances that they could still
poke and prod at you and that you might
be able to manage the situation with
something approximating a sense of humor
precisely when when I used I lectured at
Harvard for a long time on owitz and
that's about as dark a topic as you can
possibly manage and I had the a voice in
the back of my mind constantly it was
dead serious lectures right and the
voice said continually if you were truly
a master of this topic you could deal
with it with a light touch and I thought
oh my god really like really I'm going
to talk about how prison guards took
Delight in torturing people at owitz and
I'm going to do that with a light touch
and I realized after thinking about that
for a very long time like decades really
that you aren't a master of something
until you can deal with a with a light
touch no matter how dark a subject that
it is and like obviously the darker the
subject
the more Mastery you have to have in
order to make light of it clearly right
without going sideways but but I still
do think it's a sign of Mastery and
that's why people enjoy the laughter so
much right because it is a signal of of
Mastery often over tragedy and what's
forbidden and what's dark and to
interfere with that that means that the
woke types who are interfering with that
are actually doing a disservice to the
very morality that they claim to stand
for because what you're doing if you're
a comic is actually helping people not
hurting them and you can tell you're
helping them because they laugh oh of
course and it doesn't need to be for the
masses if you reach even just a few
people you're doing the right thing I
like I said at the beginning of the
podcast everything I do is just to make
okay so I'm curious about that because
well obviously the people who apologize
for offending someone with their art or
their comedy must have doubts about
their own intent right so someone comes
along and Jabs them and says maybe
you're just a mean son of a [__] go
well you know maybe I should be more
careful maybe they're feeling a bit
depressed whatever they do step back and
doubt themselves so you know and you
could say that there are two reasons
that someone called for their
misbehavior might doubt themselves one
would be that they're narcissistic and
the other would be that they're actually
confident in their intent okay now
you've indicated a number of times while
we've talked that you are confident in
your intent yeah okay so so so if I was
uh like uh uh persistent skeptic I would
say well you clearly offended 12,000
people that was the number you came up
with why are you so confident in your
intent that your belief in the your own
goodness in relationship to Comedy
trumps the fact that like 12,000 people
are telling you that you said something
offensive because if 12,000 people are
sending that I would say a 100,000
people are saying they loved it and
they've been through domestic violence
situations and they found the joke very
funny that they are actually able to
deal with that situation in a comedic
light right and I I commend that bravery
I can only imagine what it takes to get
through something like that but if I can
help in any way even if it was on
accident that's I I feel great okay okay
so so part of what you used for
calibration was the fact that as far as
you could tell honestly looking at it
first of all that you were just trying
to be funny and that that joke didn't
differ from a thousand other jokes that
you've told but also that a marked
majority of people agreed with that they
if God laughs in the club where well
that's kind of how you know right people
actually that bit for the past five
months in
probably oh God 200 cities I did that
joking and opened with it and crushed
every time which is why I kept it for
the special like that's that's how you
gauge a reaction look some jokes won't
be funny I've i' I'm currently building
a new show right now I'm constantly I'm
doing so many new jokes right now some
of them will stay some of them won't
stay you have to gauge you have to try
to figure out what works and what
doesn't you have to listen you have to
listen yeah yeah okay so that's a good
well that's good too because one of the
things so Freud regarded jokes as a
route to the unconscious like a as a as
part of the royal road to the
unconscious well the reason for that is
that you don't you don't get to decide
whether you're going to laugh if it's a
genuine laugh if someone says something
that's funny you'll laugh even if you're
embarrassed about laughing afterwards
right so the funniest jokes are actually
the ones where you laugh despite
yourself yeah of course right right but
what that shows is that when you tell a
good joke you're striking someone very
rapidly and very hard in a part of their
being that can't be faked so there's
something dreadfully honest about comedy
because you can't no one laughs at a
joke with a real laugh and you can tell
if it's a real laugh unless the joke is
actually funny and so what that also
means is while you're telling these
jokes and collecting the responses so
you had this domestic violence joke and
you might say well that's risky but
that's not the right question the right
question is is it actually funny and
another question is can you rely on the
fact that it's funny as an indicator of
its moral worth and I think you can
right I think that if you tell a joke to
repeated audiences and you get a goodh
humored laugh out of that like a genuine
laugh then that's an indication that
you've actually struck the Target in the
right place and the people who are
complaining about that have more faith
in their ideological judgment than they
do in the spontaneous reaction of a
multitude of people yes right but it's
entirely what I love about comedy is
it's entirely subjective and the point
is that it makes somebody laugh right if
it does make one person laugh it is
definitively funny just not to the
masses which is totally fine obviously
the objective of having a stand up
comedy career is to appeal to as many as
you possibly can but your comedic
intentions is is if I get a laugh
technically the joke is funny now it's
up to me to listen and gauge the
audience where I go hm do I leave it as
is and I appeal to this one person which
is technically still not wrong the joke
is still funny or do I do more work on
this joke to properly articulate why I
think this is funny and why you should
laugh at it to try to get everybody else
on board okay so when you're when you're
screening jokes for continued inclusion
you could imagine a joke
that imagine it's l like this with
pieces of music there'll be pieces of
music that are very very popular that
spread very rapidly but that have no
legs right they're the sort of earworm
that you listen to once or twice catchy
yeah yeah when when you're
selecting when you're selecting jokes
I'm wondering what are your criteria
can't just be that it makes the most
people laugh like I could imagine there
are jokes that have a delayed response
and the faster people in the audience
catch it absolutely okay so can can you
can you
tell how do you determine which jokes
you
keep like what kind of response are you
looking for the most amount of laughter
is the best possible outcome
however and I don't know how I don't
know how to break this down
psychologically but there's something
about comedians that like and oo
response he said the thing not supposed
to say yeah and it is funny not laugh
out loud funny but oh my God he said it
fny well that's yeah that that's
separate from shock value though like
you're pointing out it's like I can't
believe he had the goal to say that
that's like the gesture in the king's
court fundamentally right is that you've
brought to light something that everyone
knows or suspects and pointed to it
right right and that is funny that you
get an an old response like that but
outr would be so personal too because
that that joke about domestic you saw if
if you saw the joke for the I don't know
if you saw the whole special or the clip
of it but you saw a laughter reaction
right oh yeah no a thought that was
funny yes nobody in the audience had a
problem whatsoever if you watch later in
the special I do a school shooting joke
that gets a massive who response and you
didn't get canell for that nobody's
talking about that people only care
about the things that offend them
specifically they don't care about me
hurting somebody else's feelings
potentially it's very selfish find it
entirely selfish you're going to let me
make fun of other things and make jokes
and make light of certain other dark
topics but the thing that affects you
personally is the only thing you're
upset about very yeah yeah you well you
got to ask yourself too if I the people
that I saw complaining about you I saw
absolutely no evidence in the way they
were talking about your joke that they
actually were hurt or offended whatever
they said was and I've seen this about
people complaining on on Twitter in
particular or in public they almost
always always claim offense on the
behalf of hypothetical other people yeah
who somehow they're acting as allies for
or spokes people for which is a little
bit on the condescending side to begin
with if you ask me it's like if they're
offended yeah you know if if a group of
women against domestic abuse had
conjured up a petition against you you
know and it was composed of a 100,000
sufferers well that might be more
evidence than some dimwitted tick tocker
who decided that they were going to be
the spokespeople for these hypo
hypothetically offended
the women who feel chained up in the
kitchen and it's also as simple as just
being an easy target like I'm a lot of
people just want to not like me so you
give them any inkling of that they go
boom here's the thing I can attach
myself well well well yeah well it isn't
only I think that they don't want to
like you it's that you blew up very
relatively quickly like I mean I know is
my fault I would have loved a
progressive rise in my career I didn't
know Tik Tok was going to do this right
right well but you did put in the work
yes you know it it it didn't happen it
didn't happen exactly overnight you said
You' you know you were you were in the
trenches for what 5 years before you had
anything approximating real success how
long do you think uh I would real Su
real success I would say in standup real
success probably nine years nine years
okay okay so we can't say that you blew
up like this but it wasn't sudden no it
had a very long developmental curve in
then right but that's typical that's
typical of success right it even if it
doubles say it doubles every 18 months
if it starts at zero takes a long time
for that doubling to start to actually
show okay but what that also meant was
that and this is another problem with
social media is that you had acred a lot
of status Capital right so your status
Capital would be directly associated
with how many people know you
essentially and appreciate what you do
and what that means is that Hangers On
can now leverage that for their own
purposes and the quickest and easiest
way to do that is to complain about you
publicly in a way that looks like it's
compassionate right because there's zero
effort on behalf of the person who does
that and what they're doing then is
stealing some of your acrude Social
Capital and and what's really appalling
about that as far as I'm concerned is
that they're doing that for their own
narcissistic ends which is why they make
public statements on Tik Tok let's say
in the hope that they'll go viral and
then they also do that well complaining
claiming that compassion rather than
narcissism is their fundamental
motivation right ugly it's purely clout
chasing at it at its definition to
attach yourself to what somebody else
has going on for your own selfish gain
is so pathetic you don't have anything
else to offer Tik Tok is a massive
platform of a lot of artistic creators
you can't it's everything from people
dancing to philosophers like there's so
much you can do on there do any of it
without me right right right right
without stealing from you cuz that's
essentially what it is and and
completely lying about who you think
somebody is you don't know who somebody
is based on a joke they said sarcasm ex
exists for a reason I didn't mean the
thing I said I said it because it's
funny and not what I actually feel on
the inside so who makes up the bulk of
your audience in your live shows is it
men or women uh it is it is women but I
would say it's massively changed over
the past I'd say five or six months when
when my Tik Tok status really started to
at the top of last year it was wildly
predominantly female I would say my
shows from October of last year till
about March of this year were like 90%
women any idea
why it's anybody's guess you could say
it's my face you could say it's my humor
it's I I couldn't what do you think what
do you think well you play I I watched
your crowd work I mean you're good at
you're good at playing with the women
who poke at you yes you roasted that was
a very that was a very specific Trend a
lot of women a lot of women hopped on to
like a woman would would Heckle would
yell something out and that's obviously
annoying so you rort with a mean
response comedically yeah and this
caught on people were really into that
like people were coming to shows women
were coming to shows requesting to be
roasted now obviously I don't mean
anything I say I mean shut up and stop
yelling out at shows but I'm
articulating it in a way that you know
I'm just making some jokes at your
expense it's caught on so heavily I
think there might be I don't know if
it's a fetish or of some kind maybe it's
because you dared to do it you know
that's possible maybe there's an
appreciation for for well that's what
happens with Russell Peters when he's
making ethnic do you know Russell by the
way do I know him yeah yeah I don't know
him well but we spoke on my podcast he's
a great guy I've know him years
Russell's great great and he's been
unbelievably successful and he dares to
make jokes to everyone yeah yeah is that
right of course that doesn't surprise me
and that by the way what you just said
is wildly important if you're going to
make jokes at a group's expense you have
to be open to making jokes about
everybody otherwise it does feel
targeted well and he he makes jokes
about his own ethnic group more than
anyone else's and they're very pointed
and targeted just like I make fun of
myself probably more than anybody else
does that's what baffles me is when
people can't laugh at themselves nothing
makes me laugh harder than when
someone's like making good that's the
that's one of the things I really liked
about British humor is that the Brit
love it it's the best I went over there
I think it was June of this year May or
June I this year feels three years long
sometime early late spring early summer
this year we had a bunch of shows out
there and I fell in love with it I would
love a reason to move to London for like
a year to just do comedy out there the
the audience they have a comedy
Unleashed group there well because the
com the comics in the UK have really
come under assault and a lot of them
have been canceled and so there's a
group in London um who now the the who's
this Andrew Doyle Andrew Doyle runs
comedy Unleashed and he has that online
character Tania McGrath who's a satire
of a woke feminist he wrote a book that
by Tania McGrath and yeah she's the
worst of the woke feminists anyways he
started this group called comedy
Unleashed and I went to one of just one
of their shows so far in London I
actually read a piece that I wrote for
my little 2-year-old grandson who was
trying to sorts of things on his head
pretending they were hats like old
pieces of fish and so forth and yeah but
anyways if if that when you go to the UK
again they're very much worth looking up
comedy Unleashed I definitely check I
think the funniest UK comedians are now
associated with comedy Unleashed and
they have these fora in London that are
designed to genuinely be open discourse
events as you can make a joke about any
damn thing you want and everyone who
comes there knows that and appreciates
it love that well they're very makes the
shows very funny too as you because
everyone goes and they're on the same
page let's just let's just have some fun
I would love to do a streaming platform
like that someday where where creators
can go on there and it's just it's
whatever kind of humor you want think
same kind of setup as like a porn
website you go on there you click 18 and
you click 18 and up right you know what
you're getting into same with this
website you go on there you realize
you're going to hear some crude [__]
well you should bloody well know that if
you go to a comedy show you would think
I mean listen I've never had a problem
at a live show ever I have never once
had anybody have a stand up and be like
that was not okay to
say almost 13 years of doing comedy not
once you're obviously not pushing the
envelope hard enough Jordan Peterson
said it
first I love my new hour that I'm
working on right now so much edgier it
it blows my mind people chose this one
thing to attach themselves on to and I
just I I just think it's well it's going
to it's going to redown to your credit
anyways particularly because you didn't
apologize so all that's going to happen
as far as I can tell is that this will
bring a lot more attention to your work
and people will be thrilled about the
fact that you didn't apologize one of
the things that I've noticed repeatedly
because I've gone through repeated
attempts to cancel me is that it is can
be quite an intense experience when it
in the immediate aftermath of its
occurrence and that's somewhat offut and
destabilizing because you don't exactly
know how far out it's going to spread or
what the consequences would be but if
you didn't do anything wrong and you
don't apologize or maybe you make light
of it in some creative way then the
probability that it will turn around and
flip in your direction if you can
tolerate the weight is extremely high I
don't think that part of the reason I'm
bringing this up is because I don't
think that people who are in the throws
of being canel understand this CU you
can imag imagine
historically if an angry mob of your
neighbors showed up on your doorstep
with pitchforks and flames and there was
like 40 of them it would probably be a
good time to think these people wouldn't
have gone to all that time and effort in
all likelihood had I not done something
wrong right but now you can whip up a
Twitter mob in no time whatsoever at no
with no effort at no cost to yourself
and probably some benefit and so your
instinctual responses to being mobbed
are wrong yeah
it doesn't it doesn't translate to the
real world I just walked through two
very packed airports and did nothing but
take like 45 pictures nothing but a
positive response you you have you had
any negative responses you said you had
no negative responses to anything you've
ever said so far when you're actually on
stage yeah but what about out in the
actual world not once never once has
somebody come up to me and said hey I
didn't like the thing you said cuz that
kind of so
social what I don't know if you want to
call it between a mixture of social
awareness and
accountability doesn't translate to the
real world people know takes a lot of
gold to do that a come up to someone and
say you know that thing you said even
though you don't know who they are
imagine you see a street performer right
they're playing violin on a street
corner they've got their case out with
cash right say you f hate violin violin
drives you nuts maybe he's not even good
at playing violin in what do you do you
keep walking right no sane decent human
being stops and goes you're [__]
awful to kill yourself what are you
doing out here you're making my life
miserable until I just look a different
direction that's an insane thing to do
and most people know not to do to do
that but obviously the internet creates
this this this is what I would believe
to be false confidence and and believing
that they're safe behind this imaginary
source of social media that they don't
face any repercussions because their
profile picture is an anime character
and everything's a private profile
there's no consequence saying what they
say there's no consequence for leveling
an accusation yeah it's really bad yeah
versus the real word if you come up to
me I can have an intellectual
conversation with you as to why I
disagree with you yes or or I could
smack the [__] out that is also a
consequence that is is viable and that
doesn't weigh on anybody on the internet
so it's easier for people to talk [__]
on there versus the real world where
people actually aren't even bothered and
also I had I had to figure most these
people who talk [__] on the internet and
actively try to cancel people and have
no life they're not out in the real
world they're in their house doing
absolutely nothing so you don't have to
worry about that yeah and they've got
they definitely have the mentality of
like mean girl High School bullies yeah
right we're going to shame we're
reputation Savage we're going to exclude
those are all go ahead put so much
energy in your life into things thinking
about me and how much you don't like me
what a waste of your life yeah yeah yeah
so now you said too that when you posted
your response to the criticisms you
posted something I think that's wildly
funny by the way and so maybe you could
explain that to the to the to this
particular crowd but you also told me in
the intervening time between the two
podcasts that that wasn't a calculated
response that you relied on your
instinct for what was funny so explain
what you did so
so funny you sound like a principal who
my parents came here tell them what you
did right yeah exactly lay it out man
but the principal actually loves it this
is perfect um so now I have to convince
my parents not to whoop my ass basically
this this thing happened there was an
outrage over a joke that was wildly
misperceived and that's fine you're
allowed to like or not like a joke
totally okay and in response to that I
posted every when you get canceled or or
somebody is upset about a joke you tell
you're supposed to apologize people want
you to back down and shame you and and
recognize what you've done wrong and I
don't believe I did anything wrong
whatsoever so it made me really feel
like the people who were offended by
this were for lack of better words and
to be quite Frank weak-minded so I
posted a photo of me on stage thought it
was a good photo with a link at the
bottom of it and the caption was saying
if I've ever offended you with a joke
I've told here's a link to my official
apology and the link description should
have been a dead giveaway it said click
to solve your issue and when you click
on the link it redirected you to a a a
store solve your issue that's funny very
specific because it's a little ambiguous
of course and then you click on the link
and it redirects you to a an online
storefront for special needs
helmets I thought this was very funny
and again misconstrue people and
instinctually again people get triggered
by subject matter than what the joke
actually is everybody took that as I was
making fun of special needs people mhm
no I don't have anything to say about
Mak fun of people claiming special needs
for their emotional fragility in
appropriately exactly I'm saying andely
you need this way more than they do
right and the best part is is that you
clicked on it youing idiot they could
have special needs earplugs that they
could wear to comedy shows where you
actually couldn't hear fil all the words
all of them it AI generates what they
want to hear that'll happen soon enough
that's right you'll be able to an AI
That's AI sensor but that's what your
that's technically what your algorithm
is it shows you what you want to see it
it it it tells you what you want to hear
I was the night that uh I was like the
number one trending thing on Twitter uh
like uh night before last I think it was
I texted my friend and I was like yeses
and he sent me a screenshot of his I
wasn't even top 25 he goes this isn't
nobody cares dude right it's in your
circle because it's your profile you're
going to hear about it obviously but
it's it's not to the extent of people
think so yes I I posted this misdirect
of an apology and it it couldn't have
went better I was literally just sitting
passenger side passenger seat in a car
ride with my friends and I I was I just
thought it would be a funny thing to do
it took me no more than 45 seconds to
think of doing that I go hey is this
funny and he cracked up laughing and I
went n [__] it I also thought that most
of the outrage was happening just on
Twitter and Tik Tok like Instagram is a
far more personal app I think and so the
fact that people even saw that and and
took it to other plat forms I thought
was insane but also proved my point even
more that people who don't even like my
comedy or have never even heard of me
saw the outrage and my response to it
and went oh that's actually funny so it
actually gained me a lot of fans because
most of the world I would I would feel
confident in saying the majority of
people are sick of this [__] well Mo
most people are actually hoping that a
comedian will be funny rather than ially
correct right well this is the problem I
think this is the
misapprehension of people who apologize
when they're accused because your case
is well perhaps you irritated some
people by not apologizing but first of
all there are people that you really
don't mind irritating and they weren't
really irritated to begin with so it's
all a lie anyway nor were they fans in
the first place right exactly and so
when you apologize in principle you
signal to those people that you've cow
toow and bowed down but you forgo the
opportunity to appeal to to a much
broader realm of people which You' think
would be more sensible if you were
trying to protect or develop your career
the people who look at what you've done
and think oh well that's funny enough so
maybe I'll go check out this guy that
I've never heard of I'm sure you
attracted like 10,000 fans for every
person you turned off yeah analytically
I've I have gained more fans than I have
lost across all platforms
the extremities of everybody involved in
this outrage has been nothing but
beneficial because even if you didn't
like that the domestic violence joke
that I got in trouble for which is fair
even I think it's not the best joke I've
ever written at all it's not it's it's
probably the worst joke in the special
and that's fine I do other things I have
plenty of other jokes that are for other
people the response being a perfect
example that they even if people go well
that's not funny but that joke of his is
the
extremities are so loud and so against
each other that
once one group of people
whatever you want to call them people
love to make it about the left or the
right or whatever I'm a very unpolitical
person I don't really use those terms so
they might not be correctly used here
but say the left is so outraged about
something the right instinctually goes
you're being so ridiculous about this if
you hate this I'm going to support this
because I see nothing wrong with it so
in doing that they've completely
balanced each other out right right well
right and you probably brought your work
to the attention of a whole demographic
that wouldn't have necessarily known who
you were so many people commenting I
didn't know who this kid was I actually
didn't like him before but I like this
joke that he told or or I or I dislike
you so much that the enemy of my enemy
is not my friend right right right
[Music]